---
title: JavaScript scope 👊
author: [mhmdAljefri]
---

## Scope

Scope determines the accessibility (visibility) of variables In the code area.

## Javascript contain two types of scope':'

### Local scope

### Global scope

Variable declared inside function is Local Variable and variable declared out side function is Global variable.

### Local variable

Local variable is a variable that declared inside function block. this variable is life when it’s declared and death outside the function .

example of local variable:

```javascript
function name() {
  var i = "can't be ivokied outside this method";
  console.log(i); // will work
}
name();
console.log(i); // Uncaught ReferenceError: i is not defined
```

### Global variable

Global variable is variable declared outside function block and can be used in any area of javascript application.

When you writing you javascript application everywhere outside the function is global area and variable declared in this area can be used everywhere in the document.

example of global variable:

```javascript
var i = "hey, I'm Global";
function name() {
  var i = "Opps, I'm local";
  console.log(i); // Opps, I'm Local
}
name();
console.log(i); // hey, I'm Global
JavaScript engine run every function in context when it’s invoked.
Block statement
Block statement is like if , for , and switch .

if (true) {
  var i = "Am I local?";
}
console.log(i); // it will work
```

we can declare local variable only inside function block, if we used var keyword in variable declaration. Because functions create it’s own execution context once it called.

### Why variable i global while it’s declared inside statement block'?'

statement block does’t create new scope like function block (execution context). and that’s make variable i global every time declared in statement block. So how can we declaring local variable inside statement block is there another solution?

It’s does’t make sense to declare only global variable in statement block. So JavaScript give us another declaring keywords: let and const

```javascript
if (true) {
  var i = 'global varible scope';
  let x = 'Local varible scope';
  const m = 'Local Constans scope';
}
console.log(i); // will work
console.log(x); // will raise error
console.log(m); // will raise error
```

let is like var but it must useful in declaring locale variable inside block statement. const is most power on declaring constants that can’t be modified in run time. Also in defining objects and arrays …

“Play text” by Ben Hershey on Unsplash
JavaScript Closures
Global variables can be made local (private) with closures. In other word Closures contain their own scope chain, the scope chain of their parents and the global scope

```javascript
var user;
function msg() {
  user = 'Mohammed'; // globale
  let app = 'medium'; // locale
  return function() {
    console.log('Hi ' + name + 'you are on ' + app); // Closure access both globale and local
  };
}
```

when you try to call inner function that return function. this return function will not be called unless it’s saved in other variable and then variable saved function called.

```javascript
msg(); // will do nothing
var callMsg = msg(); // saved into varible
callMsg(); // variable called and run the return function :)
// or you can access Closures like
msg()(); // this will do what variable callMsg does.
```

Conclusion
JavaScript variables can belong to the local or global scope.
Closure makes it possible for a function to have “private” variables.
Every function had it’s execution context.
That’s all thank you.
